---
layout: post
title:  "Commits"
date:   2017-2-08 15:53:00 -0500
---

I think my thoughts around commits can be best summed up as the following.

> "Commits are not a captain's log, they are changesets."

If we begin to think of code as moving between different states, all of which are stable, than we'll be more careful as we add code, and ultimately build more stable software with easier to understand histories.

If a commit ever has to be reverted, if it encapsulates a full changeset, it's much easier to figure out which commits need to be reverted to preserve functionality.

Too often do I see commits that merely show something the author tried, that do not end up being important in resulting pull request, or deployment.  These are safe to rebase out, which brings me to my next quote, that my dad, who worked as a carpenter for many years told me.

> "An inexperienced carpenter makes mistakes, an experienced one knows how to hide them"

At the company where I work, we manage new updates to the application through pull requests.  The list of commits in each pull request is always the first thing I look at, because it is much easier to read the changes included in a pull request before looking at the full changeset.

To avoid extraneous commits in this list, an experienced software engineer should regularly rebase before submitting a pull request.  As I'm working I regularly find something that should have been included in a previous commit.  I commit these alone with a message like "REBASE INTO e20d", then when I'm done building the feature, I just squash the throwaway commit into "e20d" and "e20d" becomes a more complete thought.

Furthermore, specs should be in the same commit as the changed code they test.  Specs are important descriptors of code's behaviour, and inseperable from the code that they pertain to, and when looking at a commit to understand why a change was made, having the spec that motivated the change is invaluable for telling what was going on at the time.

Much of this will probably seem obvious to an experienced developer, but as I see a lot of unnecessary, and distracting commits, I thought I would type it out.
